.TH "EXT3UNDEL.CONF" "5" "02 July 2008"
.SH "NAME" 
ext3undel.conf \- Configuration file for the \fBext3undel\fR scripts
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
This manual page documents the options that can be set in the ext3undel.conf
configuration file. For a description of what ext3undel does, see the
ext3undel(8) manpage.

.SH "SETTINGS" 
.PP 
The syntax of options is OPTION=value - Bash syntax, since it will be sourced
by the ext3undel executables, which are written in Bash script.

ext3undel first parses the /etc/ext3undel/ext3undel.conf, and after that, if
found, the ~/.ext3undel/ext3undel.conf (which overwrites settings then). So in
the first file you should define system-wide defaults - and your personal
preferences as e.g. your projects should be defined in your personal config
file. If you are the only user on the system, you could of course put all
configuration to /etc/relman/relman.conf if you prefer, since you don't hurt
anyone by that.

.PP
The following settings are available in ext3undel.conf:

.SS "FILE SYSTEMS AND PATHS"
First to say: The scripts are not creating any temporary files in the TMPDIR
(since it could be on the partition you want to recover from, and we don't want
the scripts to destroy what they should regain, do we?). They just need a place
where to create named pipes.

Usually there will be no need to change the pipes, but you may want to define
a different directory for them.

.IP "\fBTMPDIR\fR"
The directory where to create the named pipes in. Default: /tmp

.IP "\fBMNTFILE\fR"
A named pipe used when parsing the mountpoint information. Default:
${TMPDIR}/undel_FIFO

.IP "\fBTMP\fR"
An additional pipe needed here and there. Default: $TMPDIR/undel_FIFO2$$

.IP "\fBRESTDIR\fR"
Directory name to recover to. Name is used relative to the target file systems
mount point - so no leading slash here (and no trailing slash either)!
Default is "recover" (i.e., if you select the root ('/') mountpoint as
restore target, the files will be found in "/recover").

.SS "RUNTIME OPTIONS"
These are options to control the behaviour of the scripts at runtime.

.IP "\fBSILENT\fR"
Whether to suppress progress messages. Questions and problems will still be
displayed - regardless how you set this. Valid settings are 0 or 1, default
is 0.

.IP "\fBDEBUG\fR"
Shall we output debug information? You will normally not need this, but in some
cases it is really useful to track a problem. Valid settings are 0 or 1,
default is 0.

.SS "FOREMOST AND PHOTOREC OPTIONS"
Though we prefer to use PhotoRec, foremost is used as a fallback solution if
the PhotoRec executable cannot be found. So here are some options for foremost;
valid settings are always either 0 or 1:

.IP "\fBUSETS\fR"
Whether to use timestamped directories. Setting this to 0, the \fBRESTDIR\fR
will be treated literally - but then foremost will fail in case this directory
already exists. Setting it to 1 (default) appends a timestamp to \fBRESTDIR\fR.

.IP "\fBUSEQUICK\fR"
Enables foremosts Quick recover mode (see the foremost man page / documentation
for details). Valid settings are 0 or 1, default is 1.

.IP "\fBUSEQUIET\fR"
Tell foremost to "shut up" (1) or not (0, default).

.IP "\fBREADONLY\fR"
Whether foremost shall run in a "dry mode" (1) and recover nothing, but just
display what it would do, or really do the job (0, default)

.IP "\fBVERBOSE\fR"
Cause foremost to talk as much as possible (1, default) or not (0).

.IP "\fBALLHEAD\fR"
Tell foremost to write all headers (see formost documentation on the "-a"
parameter). Valid settings: 0 or 1, default 1.

.IP "\fBWHOLESPACE\fR"
Shall we recover from the whole partition (1) or from the free space only (0 -
default)? Recovering from the whole partition may include undeleted files as
well. This option will only have effect for PhotoRec 6.9+.

.P
The following options apply to both, PhotoRec and foremost:

.IP "\fBRECOPROG\fR"
Set your favorite if both, foremost and PhotoRec are installed. By default,
ext3undel first checks for PhotoRec and only then for foremost if PhotoRec
is not found (RECOPROG=photorec). To direct it to always use foremost, set
it to "RECOPROG=foremost"

.IP "\fBFILESPEC\fR"
One thing for both, PhotoRec AND foremost: default file type to restore. This is
usually identical to the file extension (check the foremost / PhotoRec
documentation for supported file formats). To recover all, set it to
FILESPEC="everything" (default).

.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
gabi(8)

ralf(8)

ext3undel(8)

http://projects.izzysoft.de/trac/ext3undel (Project page)

.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
This manual page was written by Andreas Itzchak Rehberg (devel@izzysoft.de),
the author of the program. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or
modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
Version 2.

More information may be found on the authors website, http://www.izzysoft.de/
 
