.TH gabi 8 "20 June 2008"
.IX gabi
.SH NAME
G.A.B.I. - Get All Back Immediately - is a tool to undelete an (accidentally)
deleted files from ext2/ext3 file systems

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gabi

\fBgabi --help\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
G.A.B.I. is a wrapper to either PhotoRec or foremost (whichever is found on
your system). Though you could use any of these both programs directly, Gabi
at least eases dealing with command line parameters for foremost.

Another benefit is that Gabi helps you locating the device (in opposite to the
directory) the lost files reside on, and hands this devices name, together with
some other options, to the called tool (i.e. PhotoRec or foremost) - after
making sure the user selected a device different than this to store the
recovered files to.

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
Some basic configuration can be done in /etc/ext3undel/ext3undelrc (or
$HOME/.ext3undel/ext3undelrc, after copying the file there), where you will
also find a description on what they do. G.A.B.I. first tries to read its
configuration from the global configuration, and then overwrites them with
the user specific ones (if found).

.SH MESSAGES AND EXIT CALLS
G.A.B.I. uses exit codes according to the Linux specifications (see
http://rute.2038bug.com/node7.html.gz, section 4.2). Basically these are here:

.TP
Code
Description
.TP
0
Everything went fine - or the user (= you) decided to answer "N" to some question
on whether to continue
.TP
1
Operation not permitted (e.g. script run without root privileges)
.TP
2
Some file was not found

.P
Except for those, error codes from other programs called (such as PhotoRec or
foremost) are simply returned by the script as well.

.SH "FILES"
/etc/ext3undel/ext3undelrc

/usr/bin/gabi

/usr/share/doc/ext3undel/*

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ext3undel.conf(5)

ralf(8)

ext3undel(8)

http://projects.izzysoft.de/trac/ext3undel (Project page)

.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
This manual page was written by Andreas Itzchak Rehberg (devel@izzysoft.de),
the author of the program. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or
modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
Version 2.

More information may be found on the authors website, http://www.izzysoft.de/
 
